Create prog-trans-ts-sdk.md (#9609)
MystenLabs/sui: doc/src/build/prog-trans-ts-sdk.md

```tsx
import { Transaction } from '@mysten/sui.js';
const tx = new Transaction();
```

Using this, you can then add commands to this transaction.

```tsx
// Create a new coin with balance 100, based on the coins used as gas payment.
// You can define any balance here.
const coin = tx.splitCoin(tx.gas, tx.pure(100));

// Transfer the split coin to a specific address.
tx.transferObjects([coin], tx.pure('0xSomeSuiAddress'));
```

Note that you can attach multiple of the same command type to a transaction as well. For example, we can get a list of transfers, and iterate over them to transfer coins to each of them:

```tsx
interface Transfer {
  to: string;
  amount: number;
}

// Procure a list of some Sui transfers we need to make:
const transfers: Transfer[] = getTransfers();

const tx = new Transaction();

// Create commands for each transfer
transfers.forEach((transfer) => {
  const coin = tx.splitCoin(tx.gas, tx.pure(transfer.amount));
  tx.transferObjects([coin], tx.pure(transfer.to));
});
```

> Once you have the transaction defined, you can directly execute it with a signer using `signAndExecuteTransaction`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have the transaction defined, you can directly execute it with a signer using `signAndExecuteTransaction`.
```

```tsx
signer.signAndExecuteTransaction({ transaction: tx });
```

## Inputs and commands

Programmable Transactions have two key concepts: inputs and commands.

> Inputs are values that are used as arguments to the commands in the transaction. Inputs can either be an object reference (either to an owned object, or a shared object), or a pure BCS value (for example, an encoded string used as an argument to a move call).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inputs are values that are used as arguments to the commands in the transaction. Inputs can either be an object reference (either to an owned object, an immutable object, or a shared object), or a pure BCS value (for example, an encoded string used as an argument to a move call).
```

> Commands are steps of execution in the transaction. You can also use the result of previous commands as arguments to a future command. By combining multiple commands together, programmable transactions provide a flexible way to create complex transactions.

Reviewer 2: I really love this phrasing! I always struggle to explain things like this. I want to print this out and hang it on my wall as a reminder, lol

## Constructing inputs

Inputs are how you provide external values to transactions. For example, defining an amount of Sui to transfer, or which object to pass into a move call, or a shared object. There are currently two ways to define inputs:

- **For objects:** the `tx.object(objectId)` function is used to construct an input that contains an object reference.
- **For pure values:** the `tx.pure(rawValue)` function is used, and returns an input reference that you use in commands.

## Available commands

The following commands are available:

> - `tx.splitCoin(coin, amount)` - Creates a new coin with the defined amount, split from the provided coin. Returns the coin so that it can be used in subsequent commands.

Reviewer 2: Flagging that this will change with https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/pull/9456

    - Example: `tx.makeMoveVec({ objects: [tx.object(id1), tx.object(id2)] })`
- `tx.publish(modules, dependencies)` - Publishes a Move package. Returns the upgrade capability object.

## Passing command results as arguments

You can use the result of a command as an argument in a subsequent command. Each command method on the transaction builder returns a reference to the command result.

```tsx
// Split a coin object off of the gas object:
const coin = tx.splitCoin(tx.gas, tx.pure(100);
// Transfer the resulting coin object:
tx.transferObjects([coin], tx.pure(address));
```

When a command returns multiple results, you can access the result at a specific index either using destructuring, or array indexes.

```tsx
// Destructuring (preferred, as it gives you logical local names):
const [nft1, nft2] = tx.moveCall({ target: '0x2::nft::mint_many' });
tx.transferObjects([nft1, nft2], tx.pure(address));

// Array indexes:
const mintMany = tx.moveCall({ target: '0x2::nft::mint_many' });
tx.transferObjects([mintMany[0], mintMany[1]], tx.pure(address));
```

## Use the gas coin

> With Programmable Transactions, you’re able to use the gas payment coin to construct coins with a set balance using `splitCoin`. This is useful for Sui payments, and avoids the need for up-front coin selection. The gas coin in a transaction can be accessed using `tx.gas`, and is valid as input for any arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Programmable Transactions, you’re able to use the gas payment coin to construct coins with a set balance using `splitCoin`. This is useful for Sui payments, and avoids the need for up-front coin selection. You can use `tx.gas` to access the gas coin in a transaction, and is valid as input for any arguments.
```

> With Programmable Transactions, you’re able to use the gas payment coin to construct coins with a set balance using `splitCoin`. This is useful for Sui payments, and avoids the need for up-front coin selection. You can use `tx.gas` to access the gas coin in a transaction, and is valid as input for any arguments.

Reviewer 2: It can be used by-reference for any command, so merge coins and Move call in addition to split coin.

> The gas coin can also be transferred using `transferObjects`, in the event that you wish to transfer all of your coin balance to another address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also transfer the gas coin using `transferObjects`, in the event that you want to transfer all of your coin balance to another address.
```

## Get Transaction Bytes

If you need the transaction bytes, instead of signing or executing the transaction, you can use the `build` method on the transaction builder itself.

**Important:** You might need to explicitly call `setSender()` on the transaction to ensure that the `sender` field has been populated. This is normally done by the signer before signing the transaction, but will not be done automatically if you’re building the transaction bytes yourself.

```tsx
const tx = new Transaction();

// ... add some commands...

await tx.build({ provider });
```

In most cases, building requires your JSON RPC Provider to fully resolve input values.

If you have transaction bytes, you can also convert them back into a `Transaction` class:

```tsx
const bytes = getTransactionBytesFromSomewhere();
const tx = Transaction.from(bytes);
```

## Building Offline

> In the event that you wish to build a transaction offline (i.e. with no `provider` required), you’ll need to fully-define all of your input values, and gas configuration (see below). For pure values, you can provide a `Uint8Array` which will be used directly in the transaction. For objects, you can use the `Inputs` helper to construct an object reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the event that you want to build a transaction offline (i.e. with no `provider` required), you need to fully define all of your input values, and gas configuration (see the following example). For pure values, you can provide a `Uint8Array` which will be used directly in the transaction. For objects, you can use the `Inputs` helper to construct an object reference.
```
